
.. currentmodule:: gloria

Version 0.1.3
=============

Bugfixes
--------
- Resolved an issue where missing attributes in Gloria's serialization module caused :meth:`Gloria.to_dict`, :meth:`Gloria.from_dict`, :meth:`Gloria.to_json`, and :meth:`Gloria.from_json` to fail (`#88 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/88>`_).

Stan Backend Improvements
-------------------------
Several updates have been applied across all Stan models to improve robustness, stability, and maintainability of the Stan backend. These changes significantly reduce fallback to Newton optimization, improve fit reproducibility and mitigate overshooting trend functions. All improvements are related to issue `#84 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/84>`_:

- Added normalization of the time vector to reduce sensitivity to small changes in trend rates (`#95 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/95>`_)
- Moved regressor normalization from ``models.py`` to Stan backend and changed it to *Z-score normalization* (`#96 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/96>`_)
- The initial parameter calculation in ``models.py`` was changed to work on the new time and response scales.
- Updated the prior for trend rate change coefficients :math:`\delta` from a Lasso-like to an elastic-net–like formulation. The additional Gaussian component reduces large, abrupt trend shifts (`#97 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/97>`_)
- Removed bounds on the regressor coefficient parameter :math:`\beta` to prevent the optimizer from getting stuck at parameter limits (`#98 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/98>`_)
- Consolidated shared Stan code into separate ``.stan`` files and included them via ``#include`` to simplify maintenance (`#99 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/99>`_)
- Moved prior scale calculations from the ``model`` block to the ``transformed data`` block for improved performance (`#100 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/100>`_)

Documentation
-------------
- Added :ref:`Migrate from Prophet <ref-prophet-migration>` tutorial highlighting key differences and similarities between `Prophet <https://facebook.github.io/prophet/>`_ and Gloria (`#46 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/46>`_)
- Added :ref:`Predictions <ref-predictions>` tutorial explaining the structure and interpretation of :meth:`~Gloria.predict` output (`#45 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/45>`_).
- Added :ref:`Model Serialization <ref-serialization>` tutorial on how to store and reuse fitted Gloria models (`#50 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/50>`_).
- Added :ref:`Configuration Files <ref-toml-config>` tutorial demonstrating how to configure Gloria models and methods using TOML files (`#51 <https://github.com/e-dyn/gloria/issues/51>`_).

Contributors
------------
- `Benjamin Kambs <https://github.com/benkambs>`_
- `Patrik Wollgarten <https://github.com/PWollgarten>`_
